Hi, my name is Brian Caffo.
This is the lecture on the perfect data
science experience versus real life.
Let's start by talking about
the perfect data science experiment.
Here we've got the happy little cat
looking at a highly significant p value.
So in the perfect data science experiment,
you have clearly defined hypotheses
that are specified a priori.
And experimental design
is available to you.
For example, you can use randomization
across the treatment of interest.
You can stratify or
block on some nuisance variables.
Your sample is a random sample
from a population of interests so
you know that it's generalizable.
And the data that you have are directly
able to interrogate the hypothesis that
you're interested in.
All the data set creation and merging and
data pulls from the larger
data set goes smoothly.
There's no missing data or dropout, and
your analyses are robust without the need
for any sort of advance modeling.
Your conclusions are clear and
parsimonious of knowledge is
gained via the experiment.
And the decision is obvious
being given the data and
communicated clearly with a nice report or
out going data product.
What happens in real life?
Well, in real life, Often
the data is needed to both inform the
hypotheses and interrogate the hypotheses.
Often multiple comparisons are an issue
because you've tried several different
hypotheses or
you're looking at multiple things at once.
Often your access to experimental
design is limited or nonexistent.
The data is often
completely observational.
So the population being studied isn't
the population that you're interested in.
That's often a problem,
your sample isn't representative of
the sample you'd like to generalize to.
The data don't have the exact measurements
that you need to evaluate the hypothesis.
This is a surprisingly common problem.
You'd like to study caloric intake, but
all you have is
questionnaires asking people
how many calories they ate last week,
which they can't usually remember well.
The data set is problematic, merging
is problematic with multiple matches or
no matches.
Data entry errors,
the data pool doesn't go the way that
you want, so often the case that just
the reality of building the analytic
data set is a challenging process.
You have missing data and because of the
observational nature of your experiment,
advanced modelling winds
up being required.
And then because you need advanced
modeling, advanced computing is needed to
fit the model, which raises
issues with robustness and bugs.
Then, you're all done with this process,
and
the conclusions wind up
being indeterminate.
And the decision is not substantially and
further informed by the data and
the models that you've fit.
So, that's what happens maybe,
maybe in some of the worst case scenarios,
but that's more like what happened
tends to happen in real life.
So in this class we're gonna contrast data
science in the ideal versus data science
in real life.
We're gonna talk about
different variations
of experimental design versus
observational studies.
We'll talk about how you can, some ideas
for how you can check for errant data and
other tools to make data analysis in
real life a little bit more manageable.
So the class is set up
as this introductory set of
lectures plus then six lessons.
Each lesson has a quiz, each quiz has five
questions, you need to pass four out of
the five questions to get credit for
the quiz and you can do retakes.
Before each lesson, or at the beginning
of each lesson is a reading and I would
suggest you do the reading before you go
on to do a lot of the other materials.
So I'm gonna finish this lecture in a
second by giving you some examples of data
science in the ideal versus data science
in real life that I've concocted but
welcome to the class.
I'm really glad that you're in it and
I look forward to working with you for
the next couple of days as we talk
about data science in real life.